README.md, before:

# StackExchange Answers

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/387701666.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/387701666)

"Watch" to be notified of new posts.

Question titles may be paraphrased, but IDs are exact.

### Citing

If using significant portions of code, please cite this repository. Short form (year = latest, or when the cited content was published):

> John Muradeli, StackExchange Answers, 2023. GitHub repository, https://github.com/OverLordGoldDragon/StackExchangeAnswers/. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5115534

BibTeX

```bibtex
@article{OverLordGoldDragon2020StackExchangeAnswers,
  title={StackExchange Answers},
  author={John Muradeli},
  journal={GitHub. Note: https://github.com/OverLordGoldDragon/StackExchangeAnswers/},
  year={2023},
  doi={10.5281/zenodo.5115534},
}
```

<hr>

### Signal Processing / Feature Engineering

Code-accompanied answers say "code Q...", found in respective folders, or "code included".

✯ = exceptional quality; 🡡 = great quality (brag!)

#### Feature Engineering (applied) / Problem Solving

  1. ✯ Identifying abrupt changes in audio - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87512/50076), code Q87355
  2. 🡡 Locating non-homogeneous areas in an image - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75636/50076), code included
  3. 🡡 Estimate sine frequency under white noise - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88711/50076), code Q76644
  4. Nonlinear filtering and inspection of noisy vibration signal - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84095/50076), code included

#### Intuition / "Deep" Explanations

  1. ✯ Physical significance of negative frequencies - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87994/50076)
  2. ✯ Wavelet "center frequency" explanation, relation to CWT scales - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76371/50076), code Q76329
  3. 🡡 DFT coefficients meaning? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70395/50076)
  4. 🡡 Why is `|x|^2` power? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86919/50076)
  5. 🡡 Does zero-padding distort the spectrum? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70498/50076)
  6. How is a 1D signal considered a "vector"? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87057/50076)
  7. Are colored images 2D or 3D? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81831/50076)
  8. Are real-world signals bandlimited? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75147/50076)
  9. What can be meant by "bandlimited"? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70949/50076)

#### Measures / Heuristics

  1. ✯ How to validate a wavelet filterbank? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86069/50076), code to-be-released
  2. 🡡 How to measure aliasing? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87706/50076), code Q87705

#### Time-Frequency Analysis / Feature Engineering

  1. ✯ Wavelet Scattering explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78513/50076), code Q78512
  2. ✯ Joint Time-Frequency Scattering explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78623/50076), code Q78644
  3. ✯ Synchrosqueezing explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/71399/50076)
  4. ✯ Wavelet Scattering properties & implementation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78515/50076), code Q78512
  5. 🡡 Equivalence between "windowed Fourier transform" and STFT as convolutions/filtering - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86938/50076), code Q86937
  6. 🡡 What is "spin" for the 2D (separable) Morlet? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86013/50076), code to-be-released
  7. 🡡 Amplitude extraction using STFT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86731/50076), code Q86726
  8. 🡡 Why are there beats in STFT of sines? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87086/50076), code Q11333
  9. 🡡 Power/Energy from CWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86182/50076), code Q86181
  10. 🡡 CWT vs DWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76639/50076) 
  11. 🡡 One-integral inverse CWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76239/50076), code included
  12. 🡡 Joint Time-Frequency Scattering structure & implementation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78625/50076), code Q78644
  13. What do CWT values correspond to? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86939/50076), code included
  14. Role of window length and overlap in uncertainty principle - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/80920/50076), Q80918
  15. Inverting a scalogram - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78531/50076), code Q78530
  16. Importance of overlap in STFT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76507/50076)
  17. Advantages of complex wavelets over real-valued - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76093/50076)
  18. Bandpass filtering for amplitude - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75819/50076), code included
  19. How is wavelet time & frequency resolution computed? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/72043/50076)
  20. How is wavelet center frequency computed? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70837/50076)

#### Signal Theory

  1. ✯ DFT of a sine, closed form solution and insights - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88365/50076), code Q87926
  2. 🡡 Subsampling in frequency domain, Effect of sampling rate on spectrum - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87121/50076), code included
  3. 🡡 Why is SNR periodic/sinusoidal for streamed windowing of a sine? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87933/50076)
  4. 🡡 DFT modulus of a sine, closed form solution and insights - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88400/50076), code Q87926
  5. Relationship between energy, power, and sampling rate - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86132/50076), code Q85745
  6. Hilbert transform for amplitude extraction/demodulation of broadband waveforms - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83257/50076)
  7. Other end of Nyquist limit - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84746/50076)
  8. Instantaneous frequency of a signal - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84144/50076)
  9. DFT filter bank interpretation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83878/50076)
  10. `ifft` first half of time domain ("DFT unpad property") - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81994/50076), code included
  11. Role of padding in convolution / Alleviating edge effects in Hilbert transform - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76792/50076), code Q76754
  12. How to frequency modulate? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76482/50076)
  13. Symmetries of analyticity - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/q/76560/50076)
  14. Effect of sampling rate and duration on discrete parameters of sine (spectrum) - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88389/50076)

#### Algorithms

  1. 🡡 2D FFT cross-correlation in Python - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87782/50076), code Q87781
  2. Efficient 2D convolution/cross-correlation along  only one axis (1D output) - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87563/50076), code included
  3. Optimizing window length in STFT via gradient descent - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81627/50076), code Q81624

#### Proofs / Mathy

  1. 🡡 Amplitude extraction / demodulation criteria for Hilbert transform - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83299/50076)
  2. 🡡 Is downsampling LTI for bandlimited inputs? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88055/50076), code Q88042
  3. 🡡 Sine DFT: N/4-symmetry, bin sinusoidal modulation vs time shifts  - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88421/50076), code Q87926
  4. Inverse CWT derivation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/71148/50076)


<hr>

### License

MIT-licensed.

Commit message:

Extract sine phase and amplitude, accurate and noise-robust method - https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88833/50076

README.md, after:

# StackExchange Answers

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/387701666.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/387701666)

"Watch" to be notified of new posts.

Question titles may be paraphrased, but IDs are exact.

### Citing

If using significant portions of code, please cite this repository. Short form (year = latest, or when the cited content was published):

> John Muradeli, StackExchange Answers, 2023. GitHub repository, https://github.com/OverLordGoldDragon/StackExchangeAnswers/. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5115534

BibTeX

```bibtex
@article{OverLordGoldDragon2020StackExchangeAnswers,
  title={StackExchange Answers},
  author={John Muradeli},
  journal={GitHub. Note: https://github.com/OverLordGoldDragon/StackExchangeAnswers/},
  year={2023},
  doi={10.5281/zenodo.5115534},
}
```

<hr>

### Signal Processing / Feature Engineering

Code-accompanied answers say "code Q...", found in respective folders, or "code included".

✯ = exceptional quality; 🡡 = great quality (brag!)

#### Feature Engineering (applied) / Problem Solving

  1. ✯ Identifying abrupt changes in audio - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87512/50076), code Q87355
  2. 🡡 Locating non-homogeneous areas in an image - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75636/50076), code included
  3. 🡡 Estimate sine frequency under white noise - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88711/50076), code Q76644
  4. Extract sine phase and amplitude, accurate and noise-robust method - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88833/50076), code Q29509
  5. Nonlinear filtering and inspection of noisy vibration signal - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84095/50076), code included

#### Intuition / "Deep" Explanations

  1. ✯ Physical significance of negative frequencies - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87994/50076)
  2. ✯ Wavelet "center frequency" explanation, relation to CWT scales - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76371/50076), code Q76329
  3. 🡡 DFT coefficients meaning? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70395/50076)
  4. 🡡 Why is `|x|^2` power? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86919/50076)
  5. 🡡 Does zero-padding distort the spectrum? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70498/50076)
  6. How is a 1D signal considered a "vector"? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87057/50076)
  7. Are colored images 2D or 3D? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81831/50076)
  8. Are real-world signals bandlimited? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75147/50076)
  9. What can be meant by "bandlimited"? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70949/50076)

#### Measures / Heuristics

  1. ✯ How to validate a wavelet filterbank? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86069/50076), code to-be-released
  2. 🡡 How to measure aliasing? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87706/50076), code Q87705

#### Time-Frequency Analysis / Feature Engineering

  1. ✯ Wavelet Scattering explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78513/50076), code Q78512
  2. ✯ Joint Time-Frequency Scattering explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78623/50076), code Q78644
  3. ✯ Synchrosqueezing explanation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/71399/50076)
  4. ✯ Wavelet Scattering properties & implementation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78515/50076), code Q78512
  5. 🡡 Equivalence between "windowed Fourier transform" and STFT as convolutions/filtering - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86938/50076), code Q86937
  6. 🡡 What is "spin" for the 2D (separable) Morlet? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86013/50076), code to-be-released
  7. 🡡 Amplitude extraction using STFT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86731/50076), code Q86726
  8. 🡡 Why are there beats in STFT of sines? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87086/50076), code Q11333
  9. 🡡 Power/Energy from CWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86182/50076), code Q86181
  10. 🡡 CWT vs DWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76639/50076) 
  11. 🡡 One-integral inverse CWT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76239/50076), code included
  12. 🡡 Joint Time-Frequency Scattering structure & implementation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78625/50076), code Q78644
  13. What do CWT values correspond to? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86939/50076), code included
  14. Role of window length and overlap in uncertainty principle - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/80920/50076), Q80918
  15. Inverting a scalogram - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/78531/50076), code Q78530
  16. Importance of overlap in STFT - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76507/50076)
  17. Advantages of complex wavelets over real-valued - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76093/50076)
  18. Bandpass filtering for amplitude - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/75819/50076), code included
  19. How is wavelet time & frequency resolution computed? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/72043/50076)
  20. How is wavelet center frequency computed? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/70837/50076)

#### Signal Theory

  1. ✯ DFT of a sine, closed form solution and insights - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88365/50076), code Q87926
  2. 🡡 Subsampling in frequency domain, Effect of sampling rate on spectrum - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87121/50076), code included
  3. 🡡 Why is SNR periodic/sinusoidal for streamed windowing of a sine? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87933/50076)
  4. 🡡 DFT modulus of a sine, closed form solution and insights - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88400/50076), code Q87926
  5. Relationship between energy, power, and sampling rate - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/86132/50076), code Q85745
  6. Hilbert transform for amplitude extraction/demodulation of broadband waveforms - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83257/50076)
  7. Other end of Nyquist limit - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84746/50076)
  8. Instantaneous frequency of a signal - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/84144/50076)
  9. DFT filter bank interpretation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83878/50076)
  10. `ifft` first half of time domain ("DFT unpad property") - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81994/50076), code included
  11. Role of padding in convolution / Alleviating edge effects in Hilbert transform - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76792/50076), code Q76754
  12. How to frequency modulate? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/76482/50076)
  13. Symmetries of analyticity - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/q/76560/50076)
  14. Effect of sampling rate and duration on discrete parameters of sine (spectrum) - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88389/50076)

#### Algorithms

  1. 🡡 2D FFT cross-correlation in Python - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87782/50076), code Q87781
  2. Efficient 2D convolution/cross-correlation along  only one axis (1D output) - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/87563/50076), code included
  3. Optimizing window length in STFT via gradient descent - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/81627/50076), code Q81624

#### Proofs / Mathy

  1. 🡡 Amplitude extraction / demodulation criteria for Hilbert transform - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/83299/50076)
  2. 🡡 Is downsampling LTI for bandlimited inputs? - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88055/50076), code Q88042
  3. 🡡 Sine DFT: N/4-symmetry, bin sinusoidal modulation vs time shifts  - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/88421/50076), code Q87926
  4. Inverse CWT derivation - [Q&A](https://dsp.stackexchange.com/a/71148/50076)


<hr>

### License

MIT-licensed.
